Added postgres documentation (#10835)
CDCgov/prime-reportstream: prime-router/docs/getting-started/postgres-database.md

    .orderBy(sortedColumn)

if (cursor != null) {
    prettyQuery.seek(cursor)
}

prettyQuery.limit(pageSize)
```

4. Print it!

```kotlin
println(prettyQuery.sql)
```

### Logging all queries to a file

The firehose. Turn on query logging in postgres and log them all to the file. The output is a more difficult to read
but you get complete coverage of queries that run.

#### Steps

1. Add the following volume and command entry to `docker-compose.build.yml` under the `postgresql` container.

```yaml
  postgresql:
    volumes:
      - ./logs:/logs
    command: postgres -c logging_collector=on -c log_destination=stderr -c log_directory=/logs -c log_statement=all
```

2. Remove and rebuild your postgresql container using the build docker-file

```shell
docker-compose -f docker-compose -f docker-compose.build.yml stop postgresql
docker-compose -f docker-compose -f docker-compose.build.yml rm postgresql
docker-compose -f docker-compose -f docker-compose.build.yml up -d postgresql
```

## Logging In
This section documents the process for logging into the staging instance of the Postgres database via Azure Active Directory. For production access reach out to Devops.

### Staging

> Make sure that you IP address is added to Connection Security on the database.

Author: I wasn't more specific because I felt for security purposes that that was probably the way to go but I can add more info.

#### Login to Azure CLI

```shell
az login
```

#### Login to PostgreSQL

Using your PostgreSQL tool of choice, login with the following details:

> * For write / schema access: `reportstream_pgsql_admin@dbservername`

Author: Sorry, didn't delete enough, removing.

# Postgres Database

> ## Data Restore

Reviewer: Nothing in this section is related to Postgres Database? This is just covering azure storage container management? Seems like this should be in a different doc OR this doc needs a new title, like "Azure Management" but then anything specific to Postgres that does not relate to how to manage it in azure should get moved to another doc?

### Storage Restore

If an entire storage account gets deleted it can be recovered within 90 days as long as an identically-named storage
account has not been created.

#### Actions to Mitigate

1. To restore a storage account, contact the CDC AD helpdesk.
2. At a minimum, provide the subscription ID and the name of the storage account that needs to be restored.  If
   possible, a resource ID would provide the with the most information.

### File Restore

If a file is inadvertently deleted or edited, a previous version of the file can be made the current version within the
60-day retention window.

More in [these Azure docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/backup/backup-azure-restore-files-from-vm)

1. In Azure Portal navigate to the appropriate blob container under the `Containers` blade.
2. If a file was deleted, toggle on the `Show deleted blobs` button to be able to see it.
3. Click the deleted or edited file to be restored.
4. Click the `Versions` tab.
5. In the options for the correct version of the file, click `Make current version` to restore the file to the
   appropriate point in time.

> ## DB Failover restore

Reviewer: Again, this section is more appropriate for a document titled "Azure Management" or something. I would move both this section and the one above it to such a document. The rest of this document, as you have it, seems to be in its correct place.

```

## STAGING

```shell
az login
export FLYWAY_PASSWORD=$(az account get-access-token --resource-type oss-rdbms | python3 -c "import sys, json; print(json.load(sys.stdin)['accessToken'])")
FLYWAY_URL=jdbc:postgresql://pdhstaging-pgsql.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/prime_data_hub_candidate?sslmode=require FLYWAY_USER=reportstream_pgsql_admin@pdhstaging-pgsql ./gradlew flywayRepair
FLYWAY_URL=jdbc:postgresql://pdhstaging-pgsql.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/prime_data_hub?sslmode=require FLYWAY_USER=reportstream_pgsql_admin@pdhstaging-pgsql ./gradlew flywayRepair
```

## PROD

```shell
az login
export FLYWAY_PASSWORD=$(az account get-access-token --resource-type oss-rdbms | python3 -c "import sys, json; print(json.load(sys.stdin)['accessToken'])")
FLYWAY_URL=jdbc:postgresql://pdhprod-pgsql.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/prime_data_hub_candidate?sslmode=require FLYWAY_USER=reportstream_pgsql_admin@pdhprod-pgsql ./gradlew flywayRepair
FLYWAY_URL=jdbc:postgresql://pdhprod-pgsql.postgres.database.azure.com:5432/prime_data_hub?sslmode=require FLYWAY_USER=reportstream_pgsql_admin@pdhprod-pgsql ./gradlew flywayRepair
```

> ## How to Log and Debug Database Queries

Reviewer: @thetaurean can you please review this section? I believe you're the original author? Any comments here? Should we add or remove content here?

Author: Talked to Gabriel and we are going to keep all methods in the doc. Removed the intro heading as well as the execution plan part.

)
    .from(
        ACTION.join(REPORT_FILE).on(
            REPORT_FILE.ACTION_ID.eq(ACTION.ACTION_ID)
        )
    )
    .where(whereClause)
    .orderBy(sortedColumn)

if (cursor != null) {
    prettyQuery.seek(cursor)
}

prettyQuery.limit(pageSize)
```

4. Print it!

```kotlin
println(prettyQuery.sql)
```

### Logging all queries to a file

The firehose. Turn on query logging in postgres and log them all to the file. The output is a more difficult to read
but you get complete coverage of queries that run.

#### Steps

1. Add the following volume and command entry to `docker-compose.build.yml` under the `postgresql` container.

```yaml
  postgresql:
    volumes:
      - ./logs:/logs
    command: postgres -c logging_collector=on -c log_destination=stderr -c log_directory=/logs -c log_statement=all
```

2. Remove and rebuild your postgresql container using the build docker-file

```shell
docker-compose -f docker-compose -f docker-compose.build.yml stop postgresql
docker-compose -f docker-compose -f docker-compose.build.yml rm postgresql
docker-compose -f docker-compose -f docker-compose.build.yml up -d postgresql
```

> ## Logging In

Reviewer: I feel like this section should be tested as part of this story. Especially concerning is the following:

> **NOTE: the below is currently not working. There is discussion of updating the process. In the meantime, please contact your on-boarding buddy or a teammate that has access to prod, and they can get you set up.**

We should not have docs for things that are deprecated.

Author: For sure. I tested and it did not work. Following up with Jeremy on what is and is not appropriate to put here.

Author: Figured out why it did not work. Will update the docs. This is going to be only for staging though. I will make a note to contact Jeremy for VPN access for prod. Also he said this could be changing when we update Postgres but he will let us know

> This is the process for logging into our database via Azure Active Directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section documents the process for logging in to the Staging and Production instances of the Postgres database.
```

Reviewer: Let's make sure the content that follows clearly and adequately addresses the sentence above, as it is now I think it needs a rework and needs to be tested to make sure it works, otherwise this documentation is useless.
